Starter guide for Android SDK (#187)
imagekitio/docs-keep-a-changelog: getting-started/quickstart-guides/android.md

    transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.PATH,
    defaultUploadPolicy = UploadPolicy.Builder()
        .requireNetworkType(UploadPolicy.NetworkType.ANY)
        .setMaxRetries(3)
        .build()
)
```

```java
// In Java
import com.imagekit.android.ImageKit;

ImageKit.Companion.init(
    getApplicationContext(),
    "your_public_api_key",
    "https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id",
    TransformationPosition.PATH,
    UploadPolicy.Builder()
        .requireNetworkType(UploadPolicy.NetworkType.ANY)
        .setMaxRetries(3)
        .build()
);
```

* `urlEndpoint` is the required parameter. You can get the value of the URL-endpoint from your ImageKit dashboard - https://imagekit.io/dashboard#url-endpoints.

* `transformationPosition` is optional. The default value for this parameter is `TransformationPosition.PATH`. Acceptable values are `TransformationPosition.PATH` & `TransformationPosition.QUERY`.

* `defaultUploadPolicy` is optional and only needed if you want to use the SDK for client-side file upload. This sets the default constraints for all the upload requests.

## Rendering Images in Android application

> Image URL can be created from an image path or using the absolute image URL. You can learn more about it in [docs](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-javascript#url-generation).

Reviewer: Why are we linking javascript SDK here?

Author: Removed the hyperlink.

ImageKit.getInstance()
    .url(
        path = "default-image.jpg",
        transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.QUERY
    )
    .create()
```

{% hint style="info" %}
The transformation position (path or query) is only valid when creating a URL from the image path. Transformations are always added as query parameters if the URL is created from an absolute image path using **src**.
{% endhint %}

The Android SDK provides a [function](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-Android#list-of-supported-transformations) for each transformation parameter, making the code simpler and readable. To add transformations, the functions can be chained with the  `ImagekitUrlConstructor` instance.&#x20;

```kotlin
val urlConstructor = ImageKit.getInstance()
    .url(
        path = "default-image.jpg",
        transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.QUERY
    )
    .height(400)
    .aspectRatio(3, 2)
```

Finally, once all the required transformations are defined, call `create` function to get the final transformed URL

```kotlin
val url = urlConstructor.create()
// https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg?tr=h-400,ar-3-2
```

> It will look as shown below. In the sample app, the buttons are present to demonstrate the use of different transformations. \

Reviewer: There is no screenshot right below this. Looks a bit confusing to me. Also there is unwanted `\` at the end of this sentence?

Author: Done

    folder = "/",
    isPrivateFile =  false,
    customCoordinates = "",
    responseFields = "",
    extensions = listOf(mapOf("name" to "google-auto-tagging", "minConfidence" to 80, "maxTags" to 10)),
    webhookUrl = "https://abc.xyz",
    overwriteFile = false,
    overwriteAITags = true,
    overwriteTags = true,
    overwriteCustomMetadata = true,
    customMetadata = mapOf("SKU" to "VS882HJ2JD", "price" to 599.99, "brand" to "H&M"),
    imageKitCallback = object: ImageKitCallback {
        override fun onSuccess(uploadResponse: UploadResponse) {
            // Handle Success Response
        }
        override fun onError(uploadError: UploadError) {
            // Handle Upload Error
        }
    }
)
```

After a successful upload, you should see the newly uploaded file in the [Media Library](http://dev.imagekit.io/dashboard#media-library) of your ImageKit dashboard.

If you don't see the file, check if there are any errors in the error log. Make sure that the private API key has been configured. The server app is running. And the uploaded file type is [supported](../../api-reference/upload-file-api/#allowed-file-types-for-uploading) by ImageKit.

### **Upload policy**

> The [UploadPolicy](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-android/blob/master/README.md#uploadpolicy) class represents a set of conditions that need to be met for an upload request to be executed.

Reviewer: We can add more details here as to cover why someone might need upload policy in the first place.

Author: Done

        .setMaxRetries(3)
        .build()
)
```

And you can pass a custom upload policy in the `upload()` method to override the default policy for a particular upload, e. g.:

```kotlin
ImageKit.getInstance().uploader().upload(
    file = image,
    fileName = "sample-image.jpg",
    useUniqueFilename = true,
    policy = UploadPolicy.Builder()
        .requireNetworkType(UploadPolicy.UploadPolicy.NetworkType.UNMETERED)
        .setMaxRetries(4)
        .build(),
    imageKitCallback = object: ImageKitCallback {
        override fun onSuccess(uploadResponse: UploadResponse) {
            // Handle Success Response
        }
        override fun onError(uploadError: UploadError) {
            // Handle Upload Error
        }
    }
)
```

### **Upload preprocessors**

The `ImageKitUploader` can also perform the preprocessing of the image/video to modify them before uploading, by passing an instance of [ImageUploadPreprocessor](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-android/blob/master/README.md#image-preprocessing)/[VideoUploadPreprocessor](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-android/blob/master/README.md#video-preprocessing).

> Currently, follwing processes can be applied by upload preprocessors:

Reviewer: We can add more details to cover the use-case e.g. optimize imagekit storage by avoiding upload of large files, speed up upload request etc.

Author: Done

- Images:
    - Limiting width & height
    - Rotation
    - Crop
    - Format selection
- Videos:
    - Limiting width & height
    - Frame rate
    - A/V bitrate
    - Keyframes interval

Sample Usage
```kotlin
ImageKit.getInstance().uploader().upload(
    file = image,
    fileName = "sample-image.jpg",
    useUniqueFilename = true,
    tags = ["demo"],
    preprocessor = ImageUploadPreprocessor.Builder()
        .limit(512, 512)
        .rotate(90f)
        .build(),
    imageKitCallback = object: ImageKitCallback {
        override fun onSuccess(uploadResponse: UploadResponse) {
            // Handle Success Response
        }
        override fun onError(uploadError: UploadError) {
            // Handle Upload Error
        }
    }
)
```

## Integrations with third-party libraries

> ImageKit Android SDK also provides library extensions for integrations with the following image loading libraries for Android:

Reviewer: This heading should be hyper linked in rendering images section IMO. We can do that in the end.

Author: Added the hyperlink to this section at the end of rendering images section.

---
description: >-
  Real-time image resizing, automatic optimization, and file uploading in
  Android using ImageKit.io.
---

# Android

This is a quick start guide to show you how to integrate ImageKit in an Android application.

## **Clone and run the tutorial app**

For this tutorial, we have used our sample Android app as shown below. If you have your own existing Android app, you can integrate the ImageKit Android SDK to it, the instructions for which are provided in the subsequent sections.

> 

Reviewer 2: We should add a line before the git clone command 
`Clone tutorial app repository with the following command`

```bash
git clone https://github.com/imagekit-samples/quickstart.git
```

> Open the `android` folder within the cloned repository in Android Studio, and run Gradle sync to install the dependencies that are needed to run the Android app. Then run the app by selecting your target device/emulator and clicking on the Run button in Studio.

Reviewer 2: This line seems a little confusing and too many things at once

```suggestion
Once you've cloned the repository, open `android` folder in Android Studio. Perform Gradle sync to install all the necessary dependencies for the Android app. After the sync, run the app by selecting your target device/emulator and clicking on the `Run` button in Studio.
```

Author: Edited the text for better clarity of each step.

You should see the following screen. This means the sample app has been set up correctly.

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2023-09-11 at 2.05.12 PM.png>)

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing section `Setup ImageKit Android SDK`

This section is necessary to distinguish between the `Clone and run the tutorial app` and `Installing the SDK` section. Right now it seems like in the tutorial app you have to install the sdk, but those instructions are for adding sdk into an existing application

Refer: https://docs.imagekit.io/getting-started/quickstart-guides/ios#setup-imagekit-ios-sdk

Author: Added the heading to separate the sections.

#### Installing the SDK

To install the SDK, add the following to the root-level `build.gradle`:
```gradle
allprojects {
    repositories {
       ...
        maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
    }
}
```

And in the module-level `build.gradle`, add:
```gradle 
implementation 'com.github.imagekit-developer.imagekit-android:imagekit-android:<VERSION>'
```

#### Initializing the SDK

> Initialize our SDK prefereable in the `Application` class or any `Activity` as needed, with the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Initialize our SDK preferably in the `Application` class or any `Activity` as needed, with the following code:
```

```kotlin
val urlConstructor = ImageKit.getInstance()
    .url(
        path = "default-image.jpg",
        transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.QUERY
    )
    .height(400)
    .aspectRatio(3, 2)
```

Finally, once all the required transformations are defined, call `create` function to get the final transformed URL

```kotlin
val url = urlConstructor.create()
// https://ik.imagekit.io/your_imagekit_id/default-image.jpg?tr=h-400,ar-3-2
```

It will look as shown below. In the sample app, the buttons are present to demonstrate the use of different transformations.

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2023-12-21 at 12.16.01 AM.png>)

We can also use the [extensions](#extensions-for-third-party-libraries) for the `ImagekitUrlConstructor` to create the image URLs with the image request objects from image loading libraries like Glide, Coil, Picasso etc.

## Common image manipulation in Android application

This section covers the basics:‌

* ​Basic image resizing
* Crop Mode
* ​Aspect Ratio
* ​Chained transformation

> ImageKit Android SDK provides a function  to each transformation parameter e.g. `height` for `h` and `width` for `w` parameter. It makes your code more readable. See the [full list of supported transformations](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-Android#list-of-supported-transformations) in Android SDK on Github.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ImageKit Android SDK provides a function  to each transformation parameter e.g. `height` for `h` and `width` for `w` parameter. It makes your code more readable. See the [full list of supported transformations](https://github.com/imagekit-developer/imagekit-android#list-of-supported-transformations) in Android SDK on Github.
```

Author: Done

```kotlin
val url = ImageKit.getInstance()
    .url(
        path = "default-image.jpg",
        transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.QUERY
    )
    .height(600)
    .aspectRatio(3, 2)
    .create()
```

Output:

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2023-09-11 at 2.42.21 PM.png>)

### Chained transformation

[Chained transformations](https://docs.imagekit.io/features/image-transformations/chained-transformations) provide a simple way to control the sequence in which transformations are applied.

Let’s try it out by resizing an image, then [rotating](../../features/image-transformations/resize-crop-and-other-transformations.md#rotate-rt) it:

```kotlin
val url = ImageKit.getInstance()
    .url(
        path = "default-image.jpg",
        transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.QUERY
    )
    .height(400)
    .width(300)
    .chainTransformation()
    .aspectRatio(3, 2)
    .rotation(Rotation.VALUE_90)
    .create()
```

Output:

![](<../../.gitbook/assets/Screenshot 2023-09-11 at 2.44.30 PM.png>)

## **Client-side file uploading**

Let's learn how to upload an image to our media library.

> Android SDK provides `ImageKitUploader` which provide functions to allow upload files to the [ImageKit media library](../../media-library/overview/) directly from the client-side.&#x20;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Android SDK provides `ImageKitUploader` which provide functions to allow upload files to the [ImageKit media library](../../media-library/overview/) directly from the client-side.
```

Author: Done

> For using upload functionality, we need to pass `publicKey` while [initializing the SDK](Android.md#setup-imagekit-Android-sdk), and pass the client-generated JSON Web Token (JWT) in the upload method, which the ImageKit.io server uses to authenticate and check that the upload request parameters have not been tampered with after the generation of the token. Refer this [guide](https://docs.imagekit.io/api-reference/upload-file-api/secure-client-side-file-upload#how-to-implement-authenticationendpoint-endpoint) to create the token below on the page.

Reviewer 2: This is not necessary but URL's are case sensitive, it's better to keep it consistent

```suggestion
For using upload functionality, we need to pass `publicKey` while [initializing the SDK](android.md#setup-imagekit-Android-sdk), and pass the client-generated JSON Web Token (JWT) in the upload method, which the ImageKit.io server uses to authenticate and check that the upload request parameters have not been tampered with after the generation of the token. Refer this [guide](https://docs.imagekit.io/api-reference/upload-file-api/secure-client-side-file-upload#how-to-implement-authenticationendpoint-endpoint) to create the token below on the page.
```

Author: Done

```kotlin
ImageKit.init(
    publicKey: "your_public_api_key", //Replace this with the public API key from your ImageKit account
    urlEndpoint: "your_url_endpoint", //Replace this with the URL endpoint for your ImageKit account
    transformationPosition: TransformationPosition.PATH, 
)
```

For this, we would need a dummy backend app to authenticate our upload request. API authentication for upload always happens on the backend for security reasons.

> The tutorial repository comes with a sample backend server that we can use.&#x20;

Reviewer 2: Please remove &#x20; from everywhere, not commenting in the entire page

```suggestion
The tutorial repository comes with a sample backend server that we can use.
```

Author: Done
